okay here we have yellowfin tuna being
cut for sashimi from shigeki see he's
got 40 years experience as a Japanese
chef sashimi chef this yellowfin tuna is
caught off north coast of Queensland off
Mooloolaba first cup is just coming in
under the wings chops the head straight
off
he'll scrape he'll probably scrape the
meat off that it's nice and sweet meat
off there okay okay the the reason I
when you buy sashimi you should be a
little bit careful who you buy it off is
it's not so much about the fish even
though the best fish obviously works
coil but it's it's more about the
cleansiness okay Japanese chefs are
highly trained in in in keeping their
everything nice and clean and and
keeping the bacteria nice and low
it's must most important that the
benches are spotless and the knives are
spotless and their hands are nice and
clean which is all part of their trade
okay he's coming in he splits it down
the middle on the blood line and come
into the bone
okay actually inside the fish there's no
well there should be no dangerous
bacteria until we introduce it that's
why the knives and the hands I'm going
to have to be spotlessly clean if it's
not okay the bacteria is getting
introduced to it and then we're eating
it raw and that's where you have all the
problems that's why you really should
only buy sushi me or people that you can
really trust that know their stuff okay
comes along the backbone all right so
that's that's one law in also have to be
careful not to tear the meat you have to
cut the meat away so you can get nice
flops of sashimi
okay that's one beautiful loin of
yellowfin tuna okay
then we'll get the other side we're only
going to do one side of this hey you can
see you just I'll turn that do it the
other down the other way all right so
there's all there's a bone that goes
down the middle he just cuts through
that around it and then along the back
they're quite expensive fish so it's
very important to get all the meat away
yeah every yo bijelo fin as well the
excess of $1,000 excuse my filming
basically it's very important to cut the
meat away not to rip it
as you can see also once the meats taken
away we don't wait laying it all over
the boards even though the boards have
been sanitized it's better to keep it
all open I've got another beautiful loin
place that over there and now here just
scrape scrape the bones
okay the meat on the bone is very very
sweet and an ideal for sushi or or even
even raw for sashimi very easy just with
a spoon
all right guys
okay an expert sushi chef gets very
little advice okay so we won't we won't
follow with the other side okay the
other side you just repeat the process
okay so just move that away again most
important thing to clean the bench down
he's just getting some water
the bench is cleaned down it's already
has been sanitized okay so now we're
just going to clean a loin up and cut a
few blocks for sashimi all right
normally cuts it into three pieces
pending on the side of the fish this is
only a small one okay the the smaller
fish the light of the color usually the
less oil there's also a lot of other
reasons for less oil when the fish are
caught they're caught on a long line and
some fish are actually dead when they're
bought in those ones there are very low
grade we we stick with the live online
ones with high high oil content which
which gives us the best best-tasting
sashimi okay there's a blood line the
blood lines taken out it's just along
the middle of the line okay that's
that's removed and rolling away now we
have the block
so so then it's cut the surface is cut
into two blocks the rest of it would be
cut into blocks that row up for this
just for the day we'll just take the top
one off the rest of it you just skinned
it and cut it the same way okay okay now
we add the block and cut the block in
half again all right he cuts he cuts it
along the grain in it and then against
the grain all right Japanese traditional
style is probably a little little
thicker than the Asian style or western
style very sharp knife knife Sonia
sharpened on one side and they just cut
straight back one thing about Japanese
chefs is their artistry and display it's
all part of the display all right and
there we go
you